67931
1. What does the passage mainly discuss?
(A) Why people in preindustrial societies worked few hours per week
(B) Changes that have occurred in the number of hours that people work per week
(C)A comparison of the number of hours worked per year in several industries
(D) Working conditions during the Industrial Revolution
2. Compared to preiudustrial times, the number of hours in the workweek in the nineteenth
century
(A) remained constant
(B) decreased slightly
(C) decreased significantly
(D) increased significantly
3. The word "norm" in line 5 is closest in meaning to
(A) minimum.
(B) example
(C) possibility
(D) standard
4. The word "henceforth" in line 13 is closest in meaning to
(A) in the end
(B) for a brief period
(C) from that time on
(D) on occasion
5. The "idea" mentioned in line 15 refers to
(A) the 60-hour workweek
(B) the reduction in the cost of automobiles
(C) the reduction in the workweek at some automobile factories
(D) the criticism of Ford by United States Steel and Westinghouse
6. What is one reason for the change in the length of the workweek for the average worker in the
United States during the 1930's?
(A) Several people sometimes shared a single job.
(B) Labor strikes in several countries influenced labor policy in the United States.
(C) Several corporations increased the length of the workweek.
(D) The United States government instituted a 35-hour workweek.
7. Which of the following is mentioned as one of the purposes of the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938 ?
(A) to discourage workers from asking for increased wages
(B) to establish a limit on the number of hours in the workweek
(C) to allow employers to set the length of the workweek for their workers
(D) to restrict trade with countries that had a long workweek
8. The word "mandated" in line 18 is closest in meaning to
(A) required
(B) recommended
(C) eliminated
(D) considered
9. The word "immutable" in line 21 is closest in meaning to
(A) unmatched
(B) irregular
(C) unnecessary
(D) unchangeable
10. Which of the following is NOT mentioned as evidence that the length of the workweek has
been declining since the nineteenth century?
(A) The half-day holiday (line 7)
(B) Henry Ford (lines 11-12)
(C) United States Steel and Westinghouse (line 14-15)
(D) German metalworkers (line 21)
11. According to the passage , one goal of the Japanese government is to reduce the average
annual amount of work to
(A) 1,646 hours
(B) 1,800 hours
(C) 1,957 hours
(D) 2,088 hours
67931
1. Which aspect of the lives of the Native Americans of the north Pacific Coast does the passage
mainly discuss?
(A) Methods of food preservation
(B) How diet was restricted by the environment
(C) The contributions of women to the food supply
(D) Difficulties in establishing successful farms
2. The word "unique" in line 2 is closest in meaning to
(A) comprehensible
(B) productive
(C) intentional
(D) particular
3. The word "attained" in line 3 is closest in meaning to
(A) achieved
(B) modified
(C) demanded
(D) spread
4. It can be inferred from paragraph 1 that the social organization of many agricultural peoples is
(A) more complex than that of hunters and foragers
(B) less efficient than that of hunters and foragers
(C) more widespread than that of hunters and foragers
(D) better documented than that of hunters and foragers
5.According to the passage , what is true of the "division of labor" mentioned in line 5?
A) It was first developed by NativeAmericans of the north Pacific Coast.
(B) It rarely existed among hunting
(C) It was a structure that the Native Americans of the north Pacific Coast shared with many other
peoples.
(D) It provided a form of social organization that was found mainly among coastal peoples.
6. The word "abundant" in line 7 is closest in meaning to
(A) prosperous
(B) plentiful
(C) acceptable
(D) fundamental
7.All of the following are true of the north Pacific coast women EXCEPT that they
(A) were more likely to catch shellfish than other kinds of fish
(B) contributed more materials for tool making than the men did
(C) sometimes searched for food far inland from the coast
(D) prepared and preserved the fish
8. The word "They" in line 16 refers to
(A) women
(B) tools
(C) mammals
(D) men
9. The NativeAmericans of the north Pacific Coast used smokehouses in order to
(A) store utensils used in food preparation
(B) prevent fish and shellfish from spoiling
(C) have a place to store fish and shellfish
(D) prepare elaborate meals
10. The wore "peculiar" in line 19 is closest in meaning to
(A) strange
(B) distinctive
(C) appealing
(D) biological
11. All of following are true of the cheese-like substance mentioned in paragraph 4 EXCEPT that
it was
(A) made from fish
(B) not actually cheese
(C) useful on long journeys
(D) made in a short period of time
67931
1. What is the main topic of the passage ?
(A) The classification of different types of surge glaciers
(B) The causes and consequences of surge glaciers
(C) The definition of a surge glacier
(D) The history of a particular surge glacier
2. The word "intervals" in line 2 is closest in meaning to
(A) records
(B) speeds
(C) distances
(D) periods
3. The author compares the surging motion of a surge glacier to the movement of a
(A) fish
(B) wave
(C) machine
(D) boat
4. Which of the following does the author mention as a possible cause of surging glaciers?
(A) The decline in sea levels
(B) The occurrence of unusually large ocean waves
(C) The shifting Antarctic ice shelves
(D) The pressure of meltwater underneath the glacier
5. The word "freeing" in line 7 is closest in meaning to
(A) pushing
(B) releasing
(C) strengthening
(D) draining
6.According to the passage , the Hubbard Glacier
(A) moves more often than the Valerie Glacier
(B) began movement toward the sea in 1895
(C) is 800 feet wide
(D) has moved as fast as 47 feet per day
7. Yakutat is the name of
(A) anAlaskan town
(B) the last ice age
(C) a surge glacier
(D) anAntarctic ice shelf
8. The word "plunge" in line 22 is closest in meaning to
(A) drop
(B) extend
(C) melt
(D) drift
9. The term "vicious cycle" in line 24 refers to the
(A) movement pattern of surge glaciers
(B) effect surge glaciers could have on the temperature of tropical areas
(C) effect that repeated rising sea levels might have on glacial ice
(D) constant threat surge glaciers could pose to the Gulf of Alaska
10. The author provides a definition for which of the following terms?
(A) tributary (line 15)
(B) ice dam (line 16)
(C) albedo (line 25)
(D) interglacial(line 26)
11. Which of the following statements is supported by the passage ?
(A) The movement of surge glaciers can be prevented.
(B) The next ice age could be caused by surge glaciers.
(C) Surge glaciers help to supportAntarctic ice shelves.
(D) Normal glaciers have little effect on Earth's climate.
67931
1. What does the passage mainly discuss?
(A) The function of the voice in performance
(B) The connection between voice and personality
(C) Communication styles
(D) The production of speech
2. What does the author mean by stating that, "At interpersonal levels, tone may reflect ideas and
feelings over and above the words chosen" (lines 9-10)?
(A) Feelings are expressed with different words than ideas are.
(B) The tone of voice can carry information beyond the meaning of words.
(C)A high tone of voice reflects an emotional communication.
(D) Feelings are more difficult to express than ideas.
3. The word "Here" in line 10 refers to
(A) interpersonal interactions
(B) the tone
(C) ideas and feelings
(D) words chosen
4. The word "derived" in line 15 is closest in meaning to
(A) discussed
(B) prepared
(C) registered
(D) obtained
5. Why does the author mention "artistic, political, or pedagogic communication" in line 17?
(A)As examples of public performance
(B)As examples of basic styles of communication
(C) To contrast them to singing
(D) To introduce the idea of self-image
6.According to the passage , an exuberant tone of voice, may be an indication of a person's
(A) general physical health
(B) personality
(C) ability to communicate
(D) vocal quality
7.According to the passage , an overconfident front may hide
(A) hostility
(B) shyness
(C) friendliness
(D) strength
8. The word "drastically" in line 24 is closest in meaning to
(A) frequently
(B) exactly
(C) severely
(D) easily
9. The word "evidenced" in line 25 is closest in meaning to
(A) questioned
(B) repeated
(C) indicated
(D) exaggerated
10.According to the passage , what does a constricted and harsh voice indicate?
(A) lethargy
(B) depression
(C) boredom
(D) anger
67931
1. This passage is mainly about
(A) the most influential watercolor painters in the mid-1800's
(B) efforts to organize watercolor painters in New York City during the mid-1800's
(C) a famous exhibition of watercolor paintings in New York City in the mid-1800's
(D) styles of watercolor painting in New York City during the mid-1800's
2. The year 1850 was significant in the history of watercolor painting mainly because
(A) a group of artists established a watercolor painting society
(B) watercolor painting was first introduced to New York City
(C) John Falconer established his studio for watercolor painters
(D) The first book on watercolor painting was published
3. The word "securing" in line 5 is closest in meaning to
(A) locking
(B) creating
(C) constructing
(D) acquiring
4. All of the following can be inferred about the Society for the promotion of Painting in
Watercolor EXCEPT:
(A) The society exhibited paintings in lower Manhattan.
(B) Instruction in watercolor painting was offered by members of the society
(C) The society exhibited only the paintings of its members.
(D) Scenes of the Hudson River appeared often in the work of society members.
5. The exhibition at the Crystal Palace of the works of the Society for the Promotion of Painting in
Watercolor was significant for which of the following reasons?
(A) It resulted in a dramatic increase in the popularity of painting with watercolor.
(B) It was the first time an exhibition was funded by a private source.
(C) It was the first important exhibition of the society's work.
(D) It resulted in a large increase in the membership of the society.
6. The word "it" in line 15 refers to
(A) time
(B) group
(C) building
(D) studio
7. Which of the following is true of watercolor painters in New York City in the late 1850's?
(A) They increased in number despite a lack of formal organization.
(B) They were unable to exhibit their paintings because of the lack of exhibition space.
(C) The Artists Fund Society helped them to form The American Society of Painters in Water Colors.
(D) They formed a new society because they were not allowed to join groups run by other kinds of artists.
8. Henry Warren's Painting in Water Color was important to artists because it
(A) received an important reward
(B) was the only textbook published that taught painting
(C) was much better than an earlier published fundamental of instruction
(D) attracted the interest of art collectors
9. The word "considerable" in line 19 is closest in meaning to
(A) sensitive
(B) great
(C) thoughtful
(D) planned
10. The year 1866 was significant for watercolor painting for which of the following reasons?
(A) Elements of GraphicArt was republished.
(B) Private collections of watercolors were first publicly exhibited.
(C) The neo-Venetian Gothic building on Twenty-Third Street in New York City was built.
(D) The NationalAcademy of Design held an exhibition of watercolor paintings.
11. The word "prominent" in line 25 is closest in meaning to
(A) wealthy
(B) local
(C) famous
(D) organized
67931
1. What does the passage mainly discuss?
(A) observations of the stars by ancient people
(B) rock formations of Arizona
(C) a site used by ancient people to measure time
(D) the movement of the earth around the Sun
2. The word "obtained" in line 2 is closest in meaning to
(A) acquired
(B) transported
(C) covered
(D) removed
3. The word "attributes" in line 5 is closest in meaning to
(A) changes
(B) characteristics
(C) locations
(D) dimensions
4. The word "its" in line 10 refers to
(A) roof
(B) beam
(C) hole
(D) spot
5. The word "establish" in line 15 is closest in meaning to
(A) create
(B) locate
(C) consult
(D) choose
6. Which of the following is NOT true of the spot of light?
(A) It is caused by sunlight passing through a hole.
(B) It travels across the roof of the shelter.
(C) Its movement is affected by the position of the Sun.
(D) It movement could have been used to estimate the time of day.
7. From which of the following can be the time of year be determined?
(A) The movement of the spot of light from west to east
(B) The speed with which the spot of light moves
(C) The movement of the spot of light from north to south
(D) The size of the sport of light at midday
8. The word "roughly" in line 18 is closest in meaning to
(A) finally
(B) harshly
(C) uneasily
(D) approximately
9. The passage mentions that the Hole in the Rock was used as all of the following EXCEPT
(A) a calendar
(B) a home
(C) a clock
(D) an observatory
10. Which of the following can be inferred from the fourth paragraph?
(A) The boulders are located below the rock shelter.
(B) The person seated on the rock cannot see the shelter.
(C)After it passes the boulders, the spot of light disappears.
(D) The spot of light is largest when it first appears.
67931
1. What aspects of the United States in the nineteenth century does the passage mainly discuss?
(A) Technological developments
(B) The impact of foreign immigrants on cities
(C) Standards of living
(D) The relationship between industrialization and urbanization
2. The word "influx" in line 1 is closest in meaning to
(A) working
(B) processing
(C) arrival
(D) attraction
3. The paragraph preceding the passage most probably discuss
(A) foreign immigration
(B) rural life
(C) the agricultural revolution
(D) famous cities of the twentieth century
4. What proportion of population of the United States was urban in 1900?
(A) Five percent
(B) Eleven percent
(C) Twenty-eight percent
(D) Forty-six percent
5. The word "extraordinary" in line 12 is closet in meaning to
(A) expensive
(B) exceptional
(C) supreme
(D) necessary
6. The phrase "each other" in line 13 refers to
(A) foreign immigrants and domestic migrants
(B) farms and small towns
(C) growth of cities and industrialization
(D) industry and transportation
7. The word "stimulated" in line 14 is closest in meaning to
(A) forced
(B) prepared
(C) limited
(D) motivated
8. Why does the author mention "electric lighting" and "the telephone" in line 23?
(A) They contributed to the agricultural revolution
(B) They are examples of the conveniences of city life
(C) They were developed by the same individual.
(D) They were products of the Bessemer converter.
9. The word "them" in line 25 refers to
(A) urban areas
(B) ruralAmericans
(C) farms
(D) cities
10. The word "era" in line 25 is closest in meaning to
(A) period of time
(B) location
(C) action
(D) unique situation
11. The word "intriguing" in line 27 is closest in meaning to
(A) profitable
(B) attractive
(C) comfortable
(D) challenging
67931
1. What does the passage mainly discuss?
(A)A tool to assist in making complex decisions.
(B)A comparison of actual decisions and ideal decisions
(C) Research on how people make decisions
(D) Differences between long-range and short-range decision making
2. The word "essential" in line 7 is closest in meaning to
(A) introductory
(B) changeable
(C) beneficial
(D) fundamental
3. The word "pertinent" in line 9 is closest in meaning to
(A) relevant
(B) preceding
(C) insightful
(D) responsive
4. Of the following steps, which occurs before the others in making a decision worksheet?
(A) Listing the consequences of each solution
(B) Calculating a numerical summary of each solution
(C) Deciding which consequences are most important
(D) Writing down all possible solutions
5.According to decision-worksheet theory, an optimal decision is defined as one that
(A) has the fewest variables to consider
(B) uses the most decision worksheets
(C) has the most points assigned to it
(D) is agreed to by the greatest number of people
6. The author develops the discussion in paragraph 1 by means of
(A) describing a process
(B) classifying types of worksheets
(C) providing historical background
(D) explaining a theory
7. The author states that "On the average, people can keep about seven ideas in their minds at once
(lines 17-18) to explain that
(A) most decisions involve seven steps
(B) human mental capacity has limitations
(C) some people have difficulty making minor as well as major decisions
(D) people can learn to keep more than seven ideas in their minds with practice
8. The word "succinct "in line 24 is closest in meaning to
(A) creative
(B) satisfactory
(C) personal
(D) concise
9. Which of the following terms is defined in the passage ?
(A) Proponents (line 5)
(B) Optimal (line 5)
(C) Variables (line 17)
(D) Long-range goals (line 25)
10. The word "it" in line 24 refers to
(A) worksheet
(B) problem
(C) distinction
(D) decision
11. The word "revise" in line 26 is closest in meaning to
(A) ask
(B) explain
(C) change
(D) predict
67931
1. What does the passage mainly discuss?
(A) European influence on colonialAmerican painting
(B) The importance of patronage to artist
(C) The changing status of artists in theAmerican colonies in the eighteenth century
(D) Subjects preferred by artists in theAmerican colonies in the eighteenth century.
2. The word "outbreak" in line 5 is closest in meaning to
(A) cause
(B) beginning
(C) position
(D) explanation
3. The word "undergone" in line 6 is closest in meaning to
(A) led to
(B) transformed
(C) preferred
(D) experienced
4.According to the passage , before the American Revolution the main task of limners was to
(A) paint wheel carriages
(B) paint portraits
(C) varnish furniture
(D) paint flat surfaces
5. It can be inferred from the passage that artists who were trained in England
(A) considered artists to be superior to painters
(B) barely painted portraitists
(C) were often very wealthy
(D) imitated English painters
6. The word "consorted" in line 14 is closest in meaning to
(A) made decisions
(B) studies
(C) agreed
(D) associated
7. The word "sufficient" in line 16 is closest in meaning to
(A) adequate
(B) temporary
(C) friendly
(D) expensive
8.According to the passage , artists such as Copley, West and Peal signed their paintings
(A) increased the monetary value of the paintings
(B) made it more difficult for other artists to copy the paintings
(C) supported the artists' image of professionalism
(D) distinguished colonialAmerican artists from European artists
9. The author mentions James Bowdoin III and William Byrd in line 17 as examples of which of
the following?
(A)Art gallery owners who displayed only European art
(B)Art collectors who had a profound influence on American attitudes toward art
(C)Artists who gave financial support to other artists
(D) Patrons whose helped to encourage artisans to become artists
10. With which of the following would the author be most likely to agree?
(A) Countries that have not had a political revolution are unlikely to develop great art.
(B) The most successful art collectors are usually artists themselves.
(C) The value of colonialAmerican paintings decreased after the Revolution.
(D) Colonial artists made an important contribution to the evolving culture of the new nation.